If you have any questions for Politics and Science, you can direct them by email to politicsandscience@madriver.com.
That's politicsandscience@madriver.com.
Politics and Science presents the viewpoints of its participants and does not necessarily
reflect the viewpoints of any other person or organization.
Hello and welcome to Politics and Science.
I'm your host, John Barkasin.
Today we feature an archive of my interview with Dr. Raymond Peat, Ph.D., recorded at
WGDR circa 2001.
In this show he discusses the remarkable story of Dr. Stefan Durevic and his cancer treatment
known as probiazine.
He also covers the heroic but ultimately fruitless efforts by Dr. Andrew C. Ivey, who was at
the time one of America's most prominent scientists.
Dr. Ivey attempted to give this promising treatment the clinical testing that its positive
findings warranted.
In case you're interested in this subject, the meticulously written book that tells this
story in detail is by Herbert Smith Bailey and is called K. Probiozine, Key to Cancer.
That's spelled out at the end of the show.
In this show, Dr. Peat also discusses the suppressed work of an earlier brilliant cancer
researcher called Dr. William F. Koch, M.D. and Ph.D., in his successful cancer treatments.
If you're interested in Dr. Raymond Peat's work, many of his writings are available at
his website, Raypeat.com.
And now, once again, here's Dr. Raymond Peat.
A.C. Ivey, these people all overlap for various reasons, partly because several of the alternative
health, especially alternative cancer treatment people were working on essentially the same
ideas and they were all attacked by the established forces that were working on different assumptions.
What year was this?
Oh, Koch started his work, I think one of his publications was 1911, another 1914, and
by the 1920s he had a clinic going in Cleveland.
He was a professor of medicine and chemistry and he was the first person to take seriously
for biochemistry the work on free radicals of Moses Gomberg, who demonstrated that free
radicals really exist.
They aren't just a hypothesis that exists only on paper, but Moses Gomberg showed that
highly colored chemicals appear when you can get free radicals to separate in solution
and the color is because the electron that is no longer paired is free enough that it
absorbs light in the visible spectrum.
And so that's one of the simple ways to test an unpaired electron is that suddenly the
solution goes dark.
And even chemists didn't take Gomberg seriously.
In Russia he was a major influence, but in the United States for probably 40 or 50 years
free radical chemistry just couldn't take off.
The industrial chemist, I think it was DuPont himself, maybe not, but anyway it was the
head of one of the early plastics companies, told William Koch that he had better be quiet
about the idea of applying free radical chemistry in medicine because people didn't even understand
it in organic, ordinary chemistry.
They were going to say he was talking about fantasies if he talked about the free radical
basis of biology.
It was around the 1950s that the instrumentation became available to demonstrate that free
radicals really did exist in living tissue.
What was the name of the scientist who ran for president in I think the Peace and Freedom
Party in the 1970s?
Henry Commoner.
He was one of the first people to demonstrate free radicals existing in living tissues.
When did the free radical theory start?
About 1905 I think.
1900 to 1905 was when Moses Gomberg was demonstrating them but immediately Koch was putting it into
theoretical thinking about what cells are doing.
He applied it to the concept of polymerization and blood clotting as his first thing.
He knew that in healing a wound or a cancer, blood clotting is one of the first things
that happens and the clotting abnormalities are characteristic of cancer.
It turned out that for places like DuPont, the polymerization was in fact a very important
practical industrial principle using the free radical.
But Koch anticipated even industrial thinking within just a few years of starting to work
on it.
He was applying it theoretically and practically to devise both explanations for disease and
therapies.
He seems like quite a brilliant man.
Yeah, so quick to apply knowledge that was very clear and definite but other people couldn't
accept it because it just didn't seem to fit the low standard that was common in chemistry
and all branches of science and biology at that time.
The free radical theory must have come out of the atomic theory of electrons.
Yeah, ordinary chemistry on paper they would show an atom coming loose or an atom with
other atoms attached to it coming loose from another group and taking one electron away
from where each atom had been contributing an electron to a pair that made a stable compound.
On paper they could take away a group with one electron and allow it to combine somewhere
else but they just couldn't believe that that could really exist in a watery solution for
example.
But how Moses Gomberg first did it was with triphenyl ethane.
The triphenyl ethane was a compound of two carbon rings attached to one tiny little molecule
in the center.
The tendency of the benzene ring to repel because they were placed too close together
and the whole group wasn't very soluble in water.
The force of the water and the closeness of these large groups, if you diluted, if you
kept adding water to a solution of this compound as it got very highly dilute the color would
suddenly change from clear to a deep purple.
As you got it diluted enough the groups would be able to fall apart from each other and
exist freely in solution.
Anyone that knew homeopathy which a well educated doctor did in 1900 knew that the principle
of homeopathy was that some compounds become chemically more reactive when they are highly
diluted.
So it was natural for someone with a medical education to see the importance of this chemical
principle.
But not many people who had studied homeopathy as well as classical medicine also studied
chemistry which Koch did.
The first time I heard about Koch was I think 1943 or 1944.
People were circulating little mimeographed newsletters about the scandal of how he was
being persecuted by the FBI and so on.
The history of his two trials has been written up and Koch himself told some of the stories.
These stories have never been refuted.
They are pretty well documented.
He said that criminals who tried to kill him later were proven to be at that time agents
of the FBI.
The public didn't start hearing of mob FBI connections or CIA connections until the church
committee in the 70s brought out the stuff but it was something that had been going on
for a long time.
Is that pre-Hoover?
Oh no.
That was Hoover.
Yeah, Hoover was there for about 50 years.
Yeah, he was quite a gangster.
So why were they going after him at that point?
Well his clinic was so successful in the 70s that he was able to get a job at a hospital
and he was able to get a job at a hospital and he was able to get a job at a hospital
listening to WOOL 100.1 FM